HomeKit: add procedure on adding via Ethernet/Wi-Fi (#27994)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/homekit_controller.markdown

  - [by using Apple Thread border router](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-apple-thread-border-router)

## Adding a HomeKit device via Ethernet or Wi-Fi

The HomeKit controller integration automatically detects HomeKit [compatible devices](#supported-devices) on your network when they are ready to pair.

### Prerequisites

- If you do not have the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration, add [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) to your `configuration.yaml` file.
- Find your HomeKit pairing code. The code is on the device itself, or on the packaging. If your device has a screen, it may be shown on screen.
   - There is no way to recover this if you do not have it. In this case, you will need to contact the manufacturer to see what options you have.
- Make sure your device is powered up.
- Make sure the device is on your network, but not paired with another HomeKit controller. Depending on the device, you need to follow a different set of steps:
  - If your device is not already in your network: Join the device to your network:
    - Follow the instructions of the manufacturer on how to join the device to the network

>     - If the device is HomeKit only, pair it with the Apple Home app, then follow the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the device is HomeKit only, pair it with the Apple Home app, then follow the next step (e.g. Koogeek LS1 Light Strip).
```

Author: ```suggestion
    - If the device is HomeKit only (for example the Koogeek LS1 light strip), pair it with the Apple Home app, then follow the next step.
```
otherwise it sounds like there is a step specific to the light strip.

  - If your device is in your network but is paired with an Apple device via HomeKit: **Remove** the device from the Apple Home app.
    - Otherwise you won't be able to pair it with Home Assistant.
  - **Explanation:** Adding the device to the Home app and then removing it again has two effects:
    - It adds the device to your network. It stays in the network even after you removed it from the app.
    - Removing the device from the app opens it up for pairing with Home Assistant's HomeKit Controller integration directly. HomeKit devices can only be paired to a single controller at once.

### To add a HomeKit device via Ethernet or Wi-Fi

1. The device should have been discovered under **{% my integrations title="Settings > Devices & Services" %}**.

> 1. On the HomeKit integration, select **Configure**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. On the HomeKit integration, select **Configure**.
```

     
     ![HomeKit integration](/images/integrations/homekit_controller/homekit_controller_add_01.png)

> 1. Enter your HomeKit pairing code.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Enter your HomeKit pairing code.
```

   - Add the device to a room and select **Finish**.
   - The device should now be added to your Home Assistant instance.

> 1. Once Home Assistant is configured to work with the device, you can export it back to Siri and Apple Home with the [`HomeKit`](/integrations/homekit/) integration.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Once Home Assistant is configured to work with the device, you can export it back to Siri and Apple Home with the [`HomeKit`](/integrations/homekit/) integration.
```

The [HomeKit](https://developer.apple.com/apple-home/) controller integration allows you to connect accessories with the "Works with HomeKit" logo to Home Assistant. This integration should not be confused with the [HomeKit](/integrations/homekit/) integration, which allows you to control Home Assistant devices via HomeKit.

# Adding a HomeKit device

There are different methods to add a HomeKit device to Home Assistant:

- [via Ethernet or Wi-Fi](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-ethernet-or-wi-fi)
- [via Bluetooth](#adding-a-homekit-device-through-bluetooth)
- via Thread
  - [by using Home Assistant’s preferred Thread network](#adding-a-homekit-device-to-a-thread-network-via-home-assistant)
  - [by using Apple Thread border router](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-apple-thread-border-router)

## Adding a HomeKit device via Ethernet or Wi-Fi

The HomeKit controller integration automatically detects HomeKit [compatible devices](#supported-devices) on your network when they are ready to pair.

### Prerequisites

> - If you do not have the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration, add [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) to your configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you do not have the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration, add [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) to your `configuration.yaml` file.
```

- Find your HomeKit pairing code. The code is on the device itself, or on the packaging. If your device has a screen, it may be shown on screen.
   - There is no way to recover this if you do not have it. In this case, you will need to contact the manufacturer to see what options you have.
- Make sure your device is powered up.
- Make sure the device is on your network, but not paired with another HomeKit controller. Depending on the device, you need to follow a different set of steps:
  - If your device is not already in your network: Join the device to your network:
    - Follow the instructions of the manufacturer on how to join the device to the network
    - If the device is HomeKit only, pair it with the Apple Home app, then follow the next step.
  - If your device is in your network but is paired with an Apple device via HomeKit: **Remove** the device from the Apple Home app.
    - Otherwise you won't be able to pair it with Home Assistant.
  - **Explanation:** Adding the device to the Home app and then removing it again has two effects:
    - It adds the device to your network. It stays in the network even after you removed it from the app.

>     - Removing the device from the app opens it up for pairing with Home Assistant. HomeKit devices can only be paired to a single controller at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Removing the device from the app opens it up for pairing with Home Assistant's HomeKit Controller integration directly. HomeKit devices can only be paired to a single controller at once.
```

The [HomeKit](https://developer.apple.com/apple-home/) controller integration allows you to connect accessories with the "Works with HomeKit" logo to Home Assistant. This integration should not be confused with the [HomeKit](/integrations/homekit/) integration, which allows you to control Home Assistant devices via HomeKit.

# Adding a HomeKit device

There are different methods to add a HomeKit device to Home Assistant:

- [via Ethernet or Wi-Fi](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-ethernet-or-wi-fi)
- [via Bluetooth](#adding-a-homekit-device-through-bluetooth)

>   - [migrate to a Thread network via Home Assistant](#adding-a-homekit-device-to-a-thread-network-via-home-assistant)
>   - [migrate to Thread network via Apple Thread border router](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-apple-thread-border-router)

Reviewer: Hm, somehow having the Thread stuff under Bluetooth is still a bit confusing. Maybe just a separate Thread bullet point make sense:

```suggestion
- via Thread
  - [by using Home Assistant’s preferred Thread network](#adding-a-homekit-device-to-a-thread-network-via-home-assistant)
  - [by using Apple Thread border router](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-apple-thread-border-router)
```

## Adding a HomeKit device via Ethernet or Wi-Fi

> The HomeKit controller integration automatically detects HomeKit [compatible devices](#supported-devices) that are ready to pair if the [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) integration is enabled. The `zeroconf` is enabled by default on new installations via the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration.

Reviewer: Since we have this in the prerequisites now, and most people have default_config, I would suggest to simplify this section.

```suggestion
The HomeKit controller integration automatically detects HomeKit [compatible devices](#supported-devices) on your network when they are ready to pair.
```

### Prerequisites

- If you do not have the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration, add [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) to your configuration file.
- Find your HomeKit pairing code. The code is on the device itself, or on the packaging. If your device has a screen, it may be shown on screen.
   - There is no way to recover this if you do not have it. In this case, you will need to contact the manufacturer to see what options you have.
- Make sure your device is powered up.

> - If your device is in your network but is paired with an Apple device via HomeKit, reset the device.

Reviewer: Afaik we should not reset it, at least not if it's a WiFi device. Instead we should "remove the device from the [Apple Home] app" just like below.

```suggestion
- If your device is in your network but is paired with an Apple device via HomeKit, remove the device from the Apple Home app.
```

   - Otherwise you won't be able to pair it with Home Assistant.
   - HomeKit devices can only be paired to a single controller at once.
- If your device is not already in your network, join the device to your network:
   - Follow the instructions of the manufacturer on how to join the device to the network
   - If you do not have the instructions, or the device is HomeKit only:
     - Pair it with the Apple Home app (using the iOS Home app).
     - After it has been paired with the Apple Home app, remove the device from the app again.
     - Do not reset the device.
     **Result**: Adding the device to the Home app and then removing it again has two effects:
       - It adds the device to your network. It stays in the network even after you removed it from the app.

>        - Removing the device from the app opens it up for pairing with Home Assistant.

Reviewer: This is kinda nice explanation what is going on. And the same applies to above. Can we maybe unify the two bullet points somewhat (the "If your device is in your network" and "If your device is not already in your network").

Author: How about moving the explanation out of the list so that it is clearer that it applies to both?
That way, we could keep both bullet points. They represent 2 different starting points. 

What do you think?

Reviewer: Yeah, just make sure it's clear to the reader that it applies to both. We are anyways a bit too deeply nested here :sweat_smile:

Author: agreed, the nesting is a bit involved :smirk: 
struggling to make it flatter.

The [HomeKit](https://developer.apple.com/apple-home/) controller integration allows you to connect accessories with the "Works with HomeKit" logo to Home Assistant. This integration should not be confused with the [HomeKit](/integrations/homekit/) integration, which allows you to control Home Assistant devices via HomeKit.

# Adding a HomeKit device

There are different methods to add a HomeKit device to Home Assistant:

> - [via Ethernet or Wi-Fi](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-ethernet-or-wi-fi): Requires the pairing code
> - [via Bluetooth](#adding-a-homekit-device-through-bluetooth): Requires the pairing code
> - [onto a Thread network via Home Assistant](#adding-a-homekit-device-to-a-thread-network-via-home-assistant): No pairing code required
> - [onto a Thread network via Apple Thread border router](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-apple-thread-border-router): No pairing code required

Reviewer: I'd indent the last two to make them sub-options of the Bluetooth option (since the Bluetooth on-boarding is a prerequisite).

By design, all methods in some way or another need the pairing code (e.g. both Thread methods just require that pairing code earlier, when adding to the Bluetooth). Otherwise the whole security concept of these devices would be broken :cold_sweat: . So, I'd just remove that information.

```suggestion
- [via Ethernet or Wi-Fi](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-ethernet-or-wi-fi)
- [via Bluetooth](#adding-a-homekit-device-through-bluetooth)
  - [migrate to a Thread network via Home Assistant](#adding-a-homekit-device-to-a-thread-network-via-home-assistant)
  - [migrate to Thread network via Apple Thread border router](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-apple-thread-border-router)
```

## Adding a HomeKit device via Ethernet or Wi-Fi

The HomeKit controller integration automatically detects HomeKit [compatible devices](#supported-devices) that are ready to pair if the [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) integration is enabled. The `zeroconf` is enabled by default on new installations via the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration.

### Prerequisites

> 1. If you do not have the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration, add [`zeroconf`] to your configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you do not have the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration, add [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) to your configuration file.
```

1. Find your HomeKit pairing code. The code is on the device itself, or on the packaging. If your device has a screen, it may be shown on screen.
   - There is no way to recover this if you do not have it. In this case, you will need to contact the manufacturer to see what options you have.
2. Power up your device.
3. If your device is in your network but is paired with an Apple device via HomeKit, reset the device.
   - Otherwise you won't be able to pair it with Home Assistant.
   - HomeKit devices can only be paired to a single controller at once.
4. If your device is not already in your network, join the device to your network:
   - Follow the instructions of the manufacturer on how to join the device to the network
   - If you do not have the instructions, or the device is HomeKit only:

>      - Pair it with the Apple Home app (using the iOS Home app).

Reviewer: So that will help to get it onto the (WiFi) network? I guess this needs unpairing it again after that?

Reviewer: Nevermind, I see that this is step one below.

I think I'd move the step below to this prerequisit here, so that the onboarding flow is the same for all devices.

# Adding a HomeKit device

There are different methods to add a HomeKit device to Home Assistant:

- [via Ethernet or Wi-Fi](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-ethernet-or-wi-fi)
- [via Bluetooth](#adding-a-homekit-device-through-bluetooth)
- via Thread
  - [by using Home Assistant’s preferred Thread network](#adding-a-homekit-device-to-a-thread-network-via-home-assistant)
  - [by using Apple Thread border router](#adding-a-homekit-device-via-apple-thread-border-router)

## Adding a HomeKit device via Ethernet or Wi-Fi

The HomeKit controller integration automatically detects HomeKit [compatible devices](#supported-devices) on your network when they are ready to pair.

### Prerequisites

- If you do not have the [`default_config`](/integrations/default_config/) integration, add [`zeroconf`](/integrations/zeroconf/) to your configuration file.
- Find your HomeKit pairing code. The code is on the device itself, or on the packaging. If your device has a screen, it may be shown on screen.
   - There is no way to recover this if you do not have it. In this case, you will need to contact the manufacturer to see what options you have.
- Make sure your device is powered up.

> - If your device is in your network but is paired with an Apple device via HomeKit, remove the device from the Apple Home app.
>    - Otherwise you won't be able to pair it with Home Assistant.
>    - HomeKit devices can only be paired to a single controller at once.
> - If your device is not already in your network, join the device to your network:
>    - Follow the instructions of the manufacturer on how to join the device to the network
>    - If you do not have the instructions, or the device is HomeKit only:
>      - Pair it with the Apple Home app (using the iOS Home app).
>      - After it has been paired with the Apple Home app, remove the device from the app again.
>      - Do not reset the device.

Reviewer: It doesn't convince me completely. Another stab:

```suggestion
- Make sure the device is on your network, but not paired with another HomeKit controller. Depending on the device you need to go through a different set of steps:
  - If your device is not already in your network: **Join** the device to your network:
    - Follow the instructions of the manufacturer on how to join the device to the network
    - If the device is HomeKit only, simply pair it with the Apple Home app, then follow the next bullet point.
  - If your device is in your network but is paired with an Apple device via HomeKit: **Remove** the device from the Apple Home app.
    - Otherwise you won't be able to pair it with Home Assistant.
  - **Note:** Adding the device to the Home app and then removing it again has two effects:
    - It adds the device to your network. It stays in the network even after you removed it from the app.
    - Removing the device from the app opens it up for pairing with Home Assistant. HomeKit devices can only be paired to a single controller at once.
```

> Adding the device to the Home app and then removing it again has two effects:
>  - It adds the device to your network. It stays in the network even after you removed it from the app.
>  - Removing the device from the app opens it up for pairing with Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Sensor (HomeKit humidity, temperature, co2 and light level sensors)
- Fan
- Air Quality
- Humidifier (HomeKit humidifiers and dehumidifiers)
- Automation Triggers (HomeKit 'stateless' accessories like buttons, remotes and doorbells)

<div class='note'>

  If your device is not on this list then you may still be able to pair it, and it will be visible in the Device Registry. But Home Assistant may not create entities for it.

</div>

HomeKit IP accessories for these device types may work with some caveats:

- If the device is Wi-Fi based and has no physical controls or screen then you may need an Apple HomeKit device like an iPhone or iPad to get the accessory onto your Wi-Fi network. For example, for a Koogeek LS1 you must add the accessory to HomeKit on your iOS device, then remove it from the iOS device. This leaves the LS1 in an unpaired state but still on your Wi-Fi. Home Assistant can then find it and pair with it.
- You need to know the HomeKit PIN. There is no way to recover this if you do not have it. In this case, you will need to contact the manufacturer to see what options you have.

> 

Reviewer: In discussion with @Jc2k, we can drop this section now. This is covered in the "Adding a HomeKit device via Ethernet or Wi-Fi" section now.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: It is kinda nice to have an example, so I moved that up.

- Sensor (HomeKit humidity, temperature, co2 and light level sensors)
- Fan
- Air Quality
- Humidifier (HomeKit humidifiers and dehumidifiers)
- Automation Triggers (HomeKit 'stateless' accessories like buttons, remotes and doorbells)

<div class='note'>

  If your device is not on this list then you may still be able to pair it, and it will be visible in the Device Registry. But Home Assistant may not create entities for it.

</div>

HomeKit IP accessories for these device types may work with some caveats:

- If the device is Wi-Fi based and has no physical controls or screen then you may need an Apple HomeKit device like an iPhone or iPad to get the accessory onto your Wi-Fi network. For example, for a Koogeek LS1 you must add the accessory to HomeKit on your iOS device, then remove it from the iOS device. This leaves the LS1 in an unpaired state but still on your Wi-Fi. Home Assistant can then find it and pair with it.
- You need to know the HomeKit PIN. There is no way to recover this if you do not have it. In this case, you will need to contact the manufacturer to see what options you have.

> The integration will poll your devices, but it will also automatically enable push updates for accessories that support it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration will enable push updates. Devices that connect through Wi-Fi or Ethernet may fall back to only polling if the connection is unstable.
```
